
Title:
Magic numbers in ppp protocol.

URL:
https://supportforums.cisco.com/discussion/9064026/magic-numbers-ppp-protocol

Statistics: Replies: 2   Avg. Rating: 5 Views: 2246   Votes: 0 Shares: 0

Description: b.macfarlane / Oct 8th, 2001
I've been using the "debug ppp negotiation" command and the output mentions magic numbers a lot. What are magic numbers and how do they relate to the lcp negotiation parameters ? I have this problem too. 0 votes Endorsed by jcarvaja svermill about 13 years 1 month ago Magic numbers are arbitrarily chosen by each ppp router. One router sends it’s own magic number to the other. If a router receives it’s own magic number back, it knows that there is a loopback on the line. The router can be configured to react to a loopback in various ways. So they really don’t have anything to do with the ppp negotiation. Rather, they are contained in regularly sent ppp messages, which replace the Cisco proprietary keepalives. See endorsement in context

Reply: svermill / Wed, 10/10/2001 - 09:58
Magic numbers are arbitrarily chosen by each ppp router. One router sends it’s own magic number to the other. If a router receives it’s own magic number back, it knows that there is a loopback on the line. The router can be configured to react to a loopback in various ways. So they really don’t have anything to do with the ppp negotiation. Rather, they are contained in regularly sent ppp messages, which replace the Cisco proprietary keepalives.

Reply: pnedeltc / Tue, 10/30/2001 - 12:36
You may want to use this... Magic numbers in PPP. This Configuration Option of PPP provides a method to detect looped-back links and other Data Link Layer anomalies. By default, the Magic-Number is not negotiated, and zero is inserted where a Magic-Number might otherwise be used. Before this Configuration Option is requested, the calling party MUST choose its Magic-Number, based on a algorithm for random numbers. When a Configure-Request is received with a Magic-Number, the received Magic-Number is compared with the Magic-Number of the last Configure-Request sent to the peer. If the two Magic-Numbers are different, then the link is not looped-back, and the Magic-Number SHOULD be acknowledged. If the two Magic-Numbers are equal, then it is possible, but not certain, that the link is looped-back and that this Configure-Request is actually the one last sent. To determine this, a Configure-Nak MUST be sent specifying a different Magic-Number value. A new Configure-Request SHOULD NOT be sent to the peer until normal processing would cause it to be sent (that is, until a Configure- Nak is received or the Restart timer runs out). Reception of a Configure-Nak with a Magic-Number different from that of the last Configure-Nak sent to the peer proves that a link is not looped-back, and indicates a unique Magic-Number. If the Magic-Number is equal to the one sent in the last Configure-Nak, the possibility of a looped-back link is increased, and a new Magic-Number MUST be chosen. In either case, a new Configure-Request SHOULD be sent with the new Magic-Number. If the link is indeed looped-back, this sequence (transmit Configure-Request, receive Configure-Request, transmit Configure-Nak, receive Configure-Nak) will repeat over and over again. If the link is not looped-back, this sequence might occur a few times, but it is extremely unlikely to occur repeatedly. More likely, the Magic-Numbers chosen at either end will quickly diverge, terminating the sequence. Best, Plamen
